Docs adjustments for FIPS 140-2 support (#66517)
elastic/elasticsearch: x-pack/docs/en/security/fips-140-compliance.asciidoc

140-2), titled "Security Requirements for Cryptographic Modules" is a U.S.
government computer security standard used to approve cryptographic modules.
{es} offers a FIPS 140-2 compliant mode and as such can run in a FIPS 140-2
configured JVM.

After ensuring that your JVM is properly configured according to FIPS 140-2 requirements
using the Java Security Provider of your choice, you can set {es} in fips mode

> by setting the `xpack.security.fips_mode.enabled` to `true` in `elasticsearch.yml`

Reviewer: Do we want to explicitly say that the JVM that is bundled with ES, is not configured to run with a FIPS certified security provider?

Author: Good point, I'll add the text.

=== Upgrade considerations

If you plan to upgrade your existing cluster to a version that can be run in
a FIPS 140-2 configured JVM, the suggested approach is to first perform a rolling
upgrade to the new version in your existing JVM and perform all necessary
configuration changes in preparation for running in fips mode. You can then
perform a rolling restart of the nodes, this time starting each node in a

> properly configured FIPS  140-2 JVM. This enables {es} to take care of a couple

Reviewer: ```suggestion
properly configured FIPS 140-2 JVM. This enables {es} to take care of a couple
```

of things automatically for you:

- <<secure-settings,Secure settings>> will be upgraded to the latest format version as
  previous format versions cannot be loaded in a FIPS 140-2 JVM. If your elasticsearch

>   keystore is not password protected, you'd still need to manually set a password, see

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  keystore is not password protected, you will still need to manually set a password, see
```

=== Upgrade considerations

If you plan to upgrade your existing cluster to a version that can be run in

> a FIPS 140-2 configured JVM, the suggested approach is to first perform a rolling

Reviewer 2: I think we can just go with `FIPS 140-2 JVM` from here out. Users should know what we're referencing.
```suggestion
a FIPS 140-2 JVM,  we recommend first perform a rolling
```

Author: I'll keep it for consistency and emphasis

Apart from setting `xpack.security.fips_mode.enabled`, a number of security
related settings need to be configured accordingly in order to be compliant
and able to run {es} successfully in a FIPS 140-2 configured JVM.

[discrete]
[[keystore-fips-password]]
==== Elasticsearch Keystore

> FIPS 140-2 ( via NIST Special Publication 800-132 ) dictates that encryption keys should at

Reviewer: ```suggestion
FIPS 140-2 (via NIST Special Publication 800-132) dictates that encryption keys should at
```

least have an effective strength of 112 bits.
As such, the elasticsearch keystore that stores the node's <<secure-settings,secure settings>>
needs to be password protected with a password that satisfies this requirement.

> This means that the  password needs to be 14 bytes long which is equivalent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means that the password needs to be 14 bytes long which is equivalent
```

Apart from setting `xpack.security.fips_mode.enabled`, a number of security
related settings need to be configured accordingly in order to be compliant

> and able to run {es} successfully in a FIPS 140-2 configured JVM.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and able to run {es} successfully in a FIPS 140-2 JVM.
```

[discrete]
[[keystore-fips-password]]

> ==== Elasticsearch Keystore

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
==== {es} keystore
```

> FIPS 140-2 (via NIST Special Publication 800-132) dictates that encryption keys should at
> least have an effective strength of 112 bits.
> As such, the elasticsearch keystore that stores the node's <<secure-settings,secure settings>>
> needs to be password protected with a password that satisfies this requirement.
> This means that the password needs to be 14 bytes long which is equivalent
> to a 14 character ASCII encoded password, or a 7 character UTF-8 encoded password.
> You can use the <<elasticsearch-keystore, elasticsearch-keystore passwd>> subcommand to change or set the
> password of an existing keystore.
> Note that when the keystore is password-protected, you must supply the password each time
> Elasticsearch starts.

Reviewer 2: It doesn't seem like the NIST Special Publication 800-132 is needed.
```suggestion
FIPS 140-2 states encryption keys must have an effective strength of at least
112 bits. To satisfy this requirement, the {es} keystore password must be at
least 14 bytes long, equivalent to a 14-character ASCII password or a
7-character UTF-8 password. You can use the
<<elasticsearch-keystore,`elasticsearch-keystore passwd`>> subcommand to set or
change an existing keystore's password. You must provide this password each time
{es} starts.
```

Author: > It doesn't seem like the NIST Special Publication 800-132 is needed.

Why do you say so ?

used in a FIPS 140-2 JVM. See <<ssl-tls-settings,`ssl.cipher_suites`>>.

[discrete]
==== TLS keystores and keys

Keystores can be used in a number of <<ssl-tls-settings>> in order to
conveniently store key and trust material. Neither `JKS`, nor `PKCS#12` keystores

> can be used in a FIPS 140-2 configured JVM however, so you must refrain from using

Reviewer 2: Streamline this a bit.
```suggestion
can be used in a FIPS 140-2 JVM. Avoid using
```

> these types of keystores.  Your FIPS 140-2 provider may provide a compliant keystore

Reviewer 2: Style nit
```suggestion
these types of keystores. Your FIPS 140-2 provider may provide a compliant keystore
```

[discrete]
==== Password Hashing

While {es} offers a number of algorithms for securely hashing credentials in memory and
on disk, only the `PBKDF2` based family of algorithms is compliant with FIPS
140-2 for password hashing. However, since `PBKDF2` is essentially a key derivation

> function, it is affected by the 112 bit key strength requirement (see <<keystore-fips-password>>)
> even if that requirement does not apply to password hashing. In order to comply to this,

Reviewer: Just a personal view:
```suggestion
function, your JVM security provider may enforce a 112 bit key strength requirement
(see <<keystore-fips-password>>), and this requirement may affect password hashing
in {es}, even though FIPS 140-2 does not mandate password standards for user
authentication. In order to accommodate this requirement, 
```

while allowing you to use passwords that satisfy your security policy, {es} offers
<<hashing-settings, pbkdf2_stretch>> which is the suggested hashing algorithm when running
{es} in FIPS 140-2 environments. `pbkdf2_stretch` performs a single round of SHA-512
on the user password before passing it to the `PBKDF2` implementation.

NOTE: You can still use one of the plain `pbkdf2` options instead of `pbkdf2_stretch` if
you have external policies and tools that can ensure all user passwords for the reserved,
native and file realms are longer than 14 bytes.

You must set the `cache.hash_algo` realm settings
and the `xpack.security.authc.password_hashing.algorithm` setting to one of the
available `pbkdf_stretch_*` values.
See <<hashing-settings>>.

Password hashing configuration changes are not retroactive so the stored hashed

> credentials of existing users of the reserved, native and fle realms will not be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
credentials of existing users of the reserved, native and file realms will not be
```

[discrete]
==== Password Hashing

While {es} offers a number of algorithms for securely hashing credentials in memory and
on disk, only the `PBKDF2` based family of algorithms is compliant with FIPS
140-2 for password hashing. However, since `PBKDF2` is essentially a key derivation

> function, your JVM security provider may enforce a 112 bit key strength requirement
> (see <<keystore-fips-password>>), and this requirement may affect password hashing
> in {es}, even though FIPS 140-2 does not mandate password standards for user
> authentication. In order to accommodate this requirement, 
> while allowing you to use passwords that satisfy your security policy, {es} offers

Reviewer 2: Streamlines a bit to remove the parenthetical.
```suggestion
function, your JVM security provider may enforce a
<<keystore-fips-password,112-bit key strength requirement>>. Although FIPS 140-2
does not mandate user password standards, this requirement may affect password
hashing in {es}. To comply with this requirement and your security policy, {es} offers
```

Author: I used a variation of the suggestion, thanks!

<<hashing-settings, pbkdf2_stretch>> which is the suggested hashing algorithm when running
{es} in FIPS 140-2 environments. `pbkdf2_stretch` performs a single round of SHA-512
on the user password before passing it to the `PBKDF2` implementation.

NOTE: You can still use one of the plain `pbkdf2` options instead of `pbkdf2_stretch` if
you have external policies and tools that can ensure all user passwords for the reserved,

> native and file realms are longer than 14 bytes.

Reviewer 2: Style nit: Use serial commas.
```suggestion
native, and file realms are longer than 14 bytes.
```

You must set the `cache.hash_algo` realm settings
and the `xpack.security.authc.password_hashing.algorithm` setting to one of the
available `pbkdf_stretch_*` values.
See <<hashing-settings>>.

Password hashing configuration changes are not retroactive so the stored hashed

> credentials of existing users of the reserved, native and file realms will not be

Reviewer 2: Style nits: Avoid future tense. Use serial commas.

We could probably reword to avoid passive voice too, but that may not be needed.
```suggestion
credentials of existing users of the reserved, native, and file realms are not
```

updated on disk.

> In order to ensure FIPS 140-2 compliance, you would need to recreate users or

Reviewer 2: A little streamlining.
```suggestion
To ensure FIPS 140-2 compliance, recreate users or
```

change their password using the <<users-command, elasticsearch-user>> CLI tool
for the file realm and the <<security-api-put-user,create users>> and
<<security-api-change-password,change password>> APIs for the native and reserved realms.
Other types of realms are not affected and do not require any changes.

The user cache will be emptied upon node restart, so any existing hashes using
non-compliant algorithms will be discarded and the new ones will be created

> using the compliant `PBKDF2` based algorithm you have selected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
using the `PBKDF2` algorithm you selected.
```

Author: this alters the meaning, I'll keep the original

* Ingest Attachment Plugin
* The <<certutil,`elasticsearch-certutil`>> tool. However,
 `elasticsearch-certutil` can very well be used in a non FIPS 140-2

>   cofigured JVM (pointing `JAVA_HOME` environment variable to a different java

Author: > but we don't need the word anyway

I think we need it. The configuration part is important because this is not something you can get, you need to configure it to be so, so I'll be sticking with FIPS 140-2 configured JVM for this doc. Thanks for the typo spot though !

  installation) in order to generate the keys and certificates that

>   can be later used in the FIPS 140-2 configured JVM.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  can be later used in the FIPS 140-2 JVM.
```

> * The SQL CLI client cannot run in a FIPS 140-2 configured JVM while using

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The SQL CLI client cannot run in a FIPS 140-2 JVM while using
```
